--- 
wordpress_id: 22
layout: post
title: "Daniel Brandt and Wikipedia\xE2\x80\x99s reliability"
wordpress_url: http://www.betsymattox.com/pingswept/2005/12/16/daniel-brandt-and-wikipedia%e2%80%99s-reliability/
---
	Daniel Terdiman has posted <a href="http://news.zdnet.com/2100-9588_22-5996542.html?tag=nl.e540">an interesting interview with Daniel Brandt</a> about his efforts to locate Brian Chase, the man who inserted false information into John Seigenthaler&#8217;s biography on Wikipedia. I thought that <a href="http://news.zdnet.com/5208-9588-0.html?forumID=1&#38;threadID=16038&#38;messageID=317987&#38;start=-1">a remark Daniel Brandt made in the comments</a> attached to the interview was interesting. Talking about tracking down the Chase, he said: &#8221; Yes, I got lucky because there was a server on that address. I have never claimed that I was anything but lucky. Non-technical journalists frequently see the Internet infrastructure as some sort of black box, and &#8216;cyber-sleuth&#8217; makes better copy than &#8216;I got lucky.&#8217; That&#8217;s not my fault.&#8221;
	That&#8217;s an example of a journalist spreading misinformation about him. Brandt has no recourse, and he doesn&#8217;t care. He doesn&#8217;t care because it&#8217;s a minor distortion, not libelous, but it&#8217;s strange that he offers that defense for himself but agrees with John Seigenthaler&#8217;s righteous fury. Couldn&#8217;t Seigenthaler also say &#8220;That&#8217;s not my fault&#8221;?
	I think taking Wikipedia to task for permitting libel despite their best efforts is silly. Wikipedia is about as dangerous as me writing &#8220;Special Lecture at Harvard, 7 pm, December 22nd. Professor Henderson will discuss John Seigenthaler involvement in planning the Kennedy assassination,&#8221; on a piece of paper and posting it in Harvard Square. The levels of traffic and exposure are about the same. It&#8217;s true that Wikipedia in the aggregate gets lots of traffic, but not Seigenthaler&#8217;s page. If Seigenthaler&#8217;s page were a high traffic page, the error would get caught sooner. The police are not fact-checking flyers in Harvard Square, so why police Wikipedia? If the Harvard Square example is ridiculous, then pick any other forum or mailing list on the internet.
	Since I was in 3rd grade, people have been telling me &#8220;Don&#8217;t believe everything you read!&#8221; and &#8220;Don&#8217;t believe everything you see on TV!&#8221; Those are educational cliches. When <a href="http://www.nature.com/news/2005/051212/full/438900a.html">Nature looks at Wikipedia vs. Britannica statistically</a>, Wikipedia does pretty well. So what&#8217;s the problem?
	Note: Terdiman&#8217;s article bears the ZDNet tag &#8220;open source.&#8221; Why? Is Daniel Terdiman tagging his own articles about Wikipedia with the tag &#8220;open source,&#8221; even though he wrote <a href="http://news.zdnet.com/2100-9588_22-5988267.html">an article last week arguing that the term &#8220;open source&#8221; was inappropriate for Wikipedia</a>?

