--- 
wordpress_id: 45
layout: post
title: "Hybrid vs. Gas-only pricing: Joe White gets it wrong."
wordpress_url: http://www.betsymattox.com/pingswept/2005/09/30/hybrid-vs-gas-only-pricing-joe-white-gets-it-wrong/
---
	The inestimable Ben Harris just alerted me to a little interview with Joe White, the Wall Street Journal&#8217;s man in Detroit, about the costs of hybrid cars. The <a href="http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=4930471">~4 minute interview</a> is available in Realplayer and Windows Media formats.
	Maybe I&#8217;m crazy, but I think Joe White may have made a mathematical error. He says that he would save $746 in gas per year if he bought a Prius instead of a comparable gas-only car. He also says that the hybrid technology raises the cost of a car by $7000-$8000 by comparing the Prius to a Honda Civic. The Prius is selling for around $21K right now, and only the extreme low-end Civics sell for $7000-$8000 less than that, so it&#8217;s not a great comparison, but even using his numbers, don&#8217;t you win with a hybrid in year 11? I&#8217;m thinking that $746 per year * 10 years =  $7460. That&#8217;s assuming that you don&#8217;t get any tax breaks and the price of gas stays constant in the next 10 years. I am ignoring the interest you&#8217;d get on your $7000-$8000 in the bank for 10 years&#8211; at 3% interest compounded annually, that&#8217;s about $2500, but Joe White claims he was ignoring that too. (That&#8217;s still a simplification, as it assumes that you&#8217;re paying cash for either car, which people rarely do.)
	As a realistic assessment, you break even after maybe 13 years if you buy a hybrid Prius in the US in 2005, assuming you get a $2000 tax deduction, have a tax rate of 30%, would have invested your savings at 3% for those 13 years, and the price of gas doesn&#8217;t rise. Plus, you get to drive a car that looks like a spaceship and can drive silently at low speeds.
	The interviewer, Steve Inskeep, does a reasonable job of pressing Joe White. Inskeep asks something like &#8220;Aren&#8217;t there other reasons that people buy hybrids, though?&#8221; White&#8217;s reply is that buying a hybrid car is &#8220;making a statement&#8221; that you value, &#8220;supporting the development of new kind of technology.&#8221;
	From my perspective, buying a hybrid is putting value on keeping our planet livable for the future. To me, it&#8217;s a moral judgment&#8211; I think I shouldn&#8217;t ruin resources that we hold in common, e. g. our atmosphere, just because it&#8217;s cheaper for me today. If we rule out moral considerations, White&#8217;s still wrong. A $13,000 Honda Civic might be cheap, but a stolen Honda Civic is free!
	Anyway, enough of this&#8211; I have to get back to my regular Friday morning routine of watching street performers in Harvard Square, but ducking out before they pass the hat. Then I&#8217;m going to shoplift 4 packs of Reese&#8217;s Peanut Butter Cups from the Brooks Pharmacy on Mass Ave, eat all 7 cups, and throw the wrappers in the street. Ah, what a life!

