---
format: markdown
date: 2005/12/28 00:00:00
title: "Stephen Kurkjian: admit your error"
---
Stephen Kurkjian, a writer for the Boston Globe, <a href="http://www.boston.com/news/local/massachusetts/articles/2005/12/28/technology_adviser_quits_unexpectedly/">reported today on the resignation of Massachusetts CIO Peter Quinn</a>. Kurkjian failed to mention that his poor reporting one of the causes of Quinn's resignation.

The background to Quinn's resignation involves his controversial initiative that will require that all Massachusetts government computer systems store documents in OpenDocument format by January 1st, 2007. Microsoft, the major software supplier to the government, would naturally prefer that Massachusetts mandate the use of their new non-standard XML formats. The alternative, OpenDocument, is a standard already used by software shipping today; additionally, it is approved by an international standards body, OASIS, and has been submitted to the ISO.

In the past few months, Microsoft has been trying to argue against the new policy. In the middle of all this, Stephen Kurkjian, a veteran reporter at the Boston Globe, wrote an article entitled: "<a href="http://www.boston.com/news/local/articles/2005/11/26/romney_administration_reviewing_trips_made_by_technology_chief/">Romney administration reviewing trips made by technology chief</a>." The article alleges that Peter Quinn made sponsored trips to technology conferences without filling out the correct forms. The "review" was instigated by the Globe, as described in this quote from Kurkjian's article: "The state launched its inquiry after the Globe began asking questions about the trips earlier this week; it is being conducted by Thomas H. Trimarco, the head of Administration and Finance."

That was on November 26, 2005. About two weeks later (December 10, 2005), <a href="http://www.boston.com/news/local/massachusetts/articles/2005/12/10/review_backs_trips_by_technology_chief/">the Globe admitted</a> that, in fact, Peter Quinn had done nothing wrong. Specifically, Kurkjian writes that, "\[Quinn's boss at the time, Eric Kriss\] confirmed that he had verbally approved all of Quinn's requests to travel to conferences in 2005. Kriss said he relieved Quinn of the responsibility of filling out the forms for the trips this year because he felt that the reason that the regulation had been put in place originally -- the fiscal crisis of the mid-1990s had cut out all state-funded travel -- had expired."

Two more weeks pass, and on December 24, 2005, Quinn sends an email to his staff announcing his resignation. According to <a href="http://www.macworld.co.uk/news/index.cfm?NewsID=13460&#38;Page=1&#38;pagePos=8">a report from Robert McMillan of Macworld</a>, his email included the following: "'Over the last several months, we have been through some very difficult and tumultuous times . . . Many of these events have been very disruptive and harmful to my personal well being, my family and many of my closest friends.'"

In <a href="http://www.boston.com/news/local/massachusetts/articles/2005/12/28/technology_adviser_quits_unexpectedly/">his article today</a> (December 28, 2005), Kurkjian quotes the same phrase, "some very difficult and tumultuous times." Kurkjian's next line is: "Quinn had been the subject of a review by his current boss, Administration and Finance Secretary Thomas H. Trimarco, following a report in November that Quinn had failed to fill out the required state forms to allow his appearances at numerous out-of-state conventions in 2005, where his visits were, for the most part, paid for by convention organizers. Trimarco's review found that Quinn had authorization to make the trips and had not violated any conflict of interest provisions."

It's shocking that Stephen Kurkjian, while explaining that Quinn was quitting because of the stress of recent events, fails to mention that he was personally the cause of one the most significant events. Kurkjian mentions "a report in November that Quinn had failed to fill out the required state forms." This fails to acknowledge that the report was a newspaper article, not a formal report of any sort; that the report was wrong; and that the report was written by Stephen Kurkjian, the same guy now reporting on Quinn's resignation.

It's certainly possible that most of the stress that pushed Quinn to quit came from other sources-- for example, the testimony of Microsoft's Alan Yates, or the strange misunderstandings of Representative Pacheco. However, given that Kurkjian wrote the erroneous report, he should take responsibility for his error.

