--- 
wordpress_id: 41
layout: post
title: Sun, IBM, et al. to fix ODF accessibility problems
wordpress_url: http://www.betsymattox.com/pingswept/2005/11/06/sun-ibm-et-al-to-fix-odf-accessibility-problems/
---
	Andy Updegrove, one of the partners at the Boston law firm, Gesmer Updegrove LLP, <a href="http://www.consortiuminfo.org/newsblog/blog.php?ID=1705">reports from a meeting</a> at IBM in Armonk, NY, that, &#8220;There has been a commitment made to not only close the gap between Microsoft Office and ODF by the Commonwealth&#8217;s deadline of January 1, 2007, but also to make ODF a superior alternative to Office for those with disabilities by that date, if not before.&#8221; The companies represented at the meeting who I presume are making this commitment include IBM, Sun, Adobe, Corel, Computer Associates, Google, Nokia, Novell, and RedHat. That&#8217;s a lot of the big guys.
	Accessibility for those with disabilities appears to be the major impediment to ODF adoption, but from the tone of Pacheco&#8217;s questioning at the hearing last Monday, it seems to me that the real problem is that he doesn&#8217;t understand the difference between a document format and an office suite. I suspect he&#8217;s just pissed off because the world is changing faster than he can update the model in his mind, and he&#8217;s getting low-frequency aliasing from the . . . never mind. Discussion between a representative of the Massachusetts ITD (Peter Quinn?) and Pacheco, from <a href="http://www.consortiuminfo.org/newsblog/blog.php?ID=1696">Updegrove&#8217;s transcript of the meeting</a>:
	<blockquote>&#8220;Q: Has the Library of Congress adopted ODF? So we have a proposal from the ITD we go with ODF. Has the Library of Congress made the same decision? Have they said, &#8220;Use OpenOffice?&#8221; Answer me yes or no.
	A: No&#8211; and neither have we. We haven&#8217;t mandated the specific product?
	Q: Isn&#8217;t that the practical situation? Isn&#8217;t that the only product? That&#8217;s my understanding.&#8221;</blockquote>
	The discussion is about what format to use for government documents&#8211; Microsoft&#8217;s new formats, currently supported by no software on the market, or ODF, currently supported by, yes, OpenOffice, but also KOffice. It&#8217;s not clear who else will *really* support it, but Novell, IBM, and Corel would be likely candidates, though Corel&#8217;s statement, quoted by David Berlind, rises to to the level of artistry in its equivocation:
	<blockquote>&#8220;Corel is a strong supporter of the continued development and adoption of the OASIS Open Document Format, and Corel strongly endorses ODF. Corel views Open Standards as a way for customers to maintain seamless and timeless access to their documents, and Open Standards free customers from the risks and costs related to reliance on a single vendor.&#8221; (Greg Wood of Corel)</blockquote>
	It would be entertaining if Microsoft decided to support ODF. If Massachusetts goes ahead with their ODF requirement, I expect that Microsoft will add half-assed support for ODF to make it look shabby.
	It&#8217;s stunning that in 2005, we don&#8217;t have a standard format for writing a letter. On the other hand, we still don&#8217;t use the metric system in the US.

