---
categories: Category 1
date: 2003-12-13T00:00:00.000Z
format: markdown
title: Forts of the 1980's
---

I grew up in a house next to an elementary school. In the 1970's, there was an area of shrubs and tall grass in between our backyard and the school parking lot called "the field." Around 1980, the so-called field was flattened out and turned into an athletic field suitable for playing soccer. At the same time, the school installed a cyclone fence topped with three rows of barbed wire along most of the edge of the field. The fence ended halfway down the back of our lot, which made the shortest path free of barbed wire to all destinations southeast around the end of the fence and through our backyard. The consequences of this traffic pattern will be dealt with at a later date.

The fence ran along two sides of the field. In the corner wrapped by the fence, there was a small tree and a clump of "pricker bushes." The bushes formed a defensive perimeter around the tree, with the fence filling in where the bushes ended. As a result, the base of the tree was the ideal location for a fort.

The main trunk of the tree leaned out from the fence over the bushes. We were able to tie a knotted rope to the tree in such a way that it hung down over the grass outside the palisade of pricker bushes. To enter the fort, you climbed up the rope and down the tree. If you were being pursued by a would-be assailant, you pulled the rope up after you. In order to apprehend you, your pursuer would have to cross the expanse of prickers, an act widely regarded as impossible at the time. In reality, I suspect that even a moderately spry neighborhood youth could jump over the pricker bushes fairly easily.

We did have an secret escape route under the fence. This started as a little depression, probably dug by a dog. Using tools such as sticks, we expanded the depression into a muddy groove big enough to allow the average fort denizen to slip under the fence.

The premise of the fort-building pastime was that there was a significant population of thugs in town who were interested in chasing us. If we built forts with pricker bush barriers and secret escape routes, we would be able to evade these thugs. In hindsight, I think the thugs probably existed. However, the chances that we would see a thug coming from far enough away that we could climb the rope, pull it up after us, climb down the tree, and then escape under the fence are zero. The thug would have had to be so far away, I can't imagine how we could have known he was chasing us.

No one ever said building forts wasn't a stupid pastime.
